IGNITE-22104 : Documentation of Custom Metrics (#11331)
apache/ignite: docs/_docs/monitoring-metrics/custom-metrics.adoc

// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
// contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
// this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
// The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
// (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
// the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
// http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
// distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,

> // WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.

Reviewer: expressed

Author: Every licence statement in the code base says 'either express'. There is no 'expressed'

// See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
// limitations under the License.
= Custom Metrics

WARNING: This feature is experimental and may change in future releases.

Ignite provides various internal link:monitoring-metrics/new-metrics.adoc[metrics]. However, these metrics might

> not be enough. User can design and publish own, custom metrics. Custom Metrics base on

Reviewer 2: Users can design and publish their own, custom metrics.

> not be enough. Users can design and publish their own, custom metrics. Custom Metrics base on

Reviewer: own custom

> not be enough. Users can design and publish their own, custom metrics. Custom Metrics base on

Reviewer: are based on

link:monitoring-metrics/new-metrics-system.adoc[Metric System].

[NOTE]
====
Custom Metrics are local and are bound only to the local node.
====

== Custom metric creation.

> To register a custom metric, you need to add new link:monitoring-metrics/new-metrics-system#registry[registry] first.

Reviewer 2: To register a custom metric, you need to add a new link:monitoring-metrics/new-metrics-system#registry[registry] first.

After that, metrics can be added to this registry.

=== Custom metric registry.

> You can create custom metric registries via `IgniteMetrics` interface which is obtained by `Ignite.metrics()`.

Reviewer 2: You can create custom metric registries via the `IgniteMetrics` interface which is obtained by `Ignite.metrics()`.

> `IgniteMetric` interface has only a couple of methods:

Reviewer 2: `IgniteMetric` interface has two methods:

> * `MetricRegistry getOrCreate(String registryName)` provides new or existing custom metric registry.

Reviewer 2: provides a new or existing custom metric registry.

> * `void remove(String registryName)` removes entire custom metric registry.

Reviewer 2: removes the entire custom metric registry.

=== Custom metric creation.

> To register new own metric, use `MetricRegistry` interface which is obtained by `IgniteMetrics.getOrCreate(...)`.

Reviewer 2: To register a new custom metric, use the `MetricRegistry` interface which is obtained by `IgniteMetrics.getOrCreate(...)`.

`MetricRegistry` has several methods to put or remove metrics like:

* `void register(String metricName, IntSupplier valueSupplier, @Nullable String description);` registers an integer-value metric.
* `void register(String metricName, DoubleSupplier valueSupplier, @Nullable String description);` registers a double-value metric.

> * `void remove(String name);` removes metric.

Reviewer 2: removes a metric.

== Naming convention.

> Names of a custom metrics (and its registries) are similar to names of the internal metrics. The name can have dot-separated

Reviewer 2: Names of the custom metrics

> Names of the custom metrics (and its registries) are similar to names of the internal metrics. The name can have dot-separated

Reviewer: to the names of internal metrics

parts like 'process.status.suspended'.

Prefix 'custom.' is always added to the custom registry name in `IgniteMetrics`. For instance, if the passed registry name is

> 'process.status.suspended', it is automatically extended to  'custom.process.status.suspended'.

Reviewer 2: Double space between `to` and 'custom.process.status.suspended'

== Limitations
* It is impossible to affect the internal metrics.

> * Custom metrics are registered on-demand and aren't persistent. After node restarts, they have to be registered anew.

Reviewer 2: After the node restarts
or
After a node's restart

* Configuration of a custom metric isn't supported.

> * The names must not be empty, cannot have spaces or empty dot-separated parts.

Reviewer: empty and cannot have

// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
// contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
// this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
// The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
// (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
// the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
// http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
// distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
// WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
// See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
// limitations under the License.
= Custom Metrics

WARNING: This feature is experimental and may change in future releases.

Ignite provides various internal link:monitoring-metrics/new-metrics.adoc[metrics]. However, these metrics might

> not be enough. User can design and publish own, custom metrics. Cusom Metrics base on

Reviewer 3: Cusom -> Custom

After that, metrics can be added to this registry.

=== Custom metric registry.

You can create custom metric registries via `IgniteMetrics` interface which is obtained by `Ignite.metrics()`.

`IgniteMetric` interface has only a couple of methods:

* `MetricRegistry getOrCreate(String registryName)` provides new or existing custom metric registry.
* `void remove(String registryName)` removes entire custom metric registry.

=== Custom metric creation.

To register new own metric, use `MetricRegistry` interface which is obtained by `IgniteMetrics.getOrCreate(...)`.

`MetricRegistry` has several methods to put or remove metrics like:

* `void register(String metricName, IntSupplier valueSupplier, @Nullable String description);` registers an integer-value metric.
* `void register(String metricName, DoubleSupplier valueSupplier, @Nullable String description);` registers a double-value metric.
* `void remove(String name);` removes metric.

== Naming convention.
Names of a custom metrics (and its registries) are similar to names of the internal metrics. The name can have dot-separated

> parts like 'proces`s.status.suspended'.

Reviewer 3: redundant `

Prefix 'custom.' is always added to the custom registry name in `IgniteMetrics`. For instance, if the passed registry name is
'process.status.suspended', it is automatically extended to  'custom.process.status.suspended'.

== Limitations
* It is impossible to affect the internal metrics.

> * Custom metrics are registered on-demand and aren't persistent. After node restarts, they have to be registered anew.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Custom metrics are registered on-demand and aren't persistent. After node restarts, they have to be registered a new.
```
